.TH KEMACS Local "29 June 1987"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
kemacs \- Kanji MicroEmacs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kemacs
[ [\fIoptions\fR] [@\fImacros\fR] [\fIfiles\fR] ... ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Kemacs
is a version of MicroEmacs which can edit KANJI code files.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Kemacs
has the following options. Each option can be 
interleaved with file arguments.
.IP \-b
specifies default file mode to be BINARY mode. 
.IP \-k[\fIkey\fR]
specifies encryption \fIkey\fR for the next file.
If \fIkey\fR is omitted, \fIkemacs\fR prompts for it when reading the file.
.IP \-v
specifies VIEW mode for the next file.
.IP \-e
specifies EDIT (non-VIEW) mode for the next file.
.IP \-r
invokes \fBrestricted\fR version of \fIkemacs\fR.
With this flag on, \fIkemacs\fR's functions are restricted so that
only the files which are specified in the command line can be edited.
.IP \-{ft}[{jJeuswlcd}]
specifies the default code system (j for JIS, J for JIS with 8bit
through, e or u for UJIS(EUC-JP), s for SJIS and w for UTF8)
or the default EOL type (l for LF, c for CR and d for DOS type CRLF)
for each device (f for files and t for terminal).
EOL type can be specified only for files, not for terminal.
For files, 8bit
through is always assumed.
Each specification can also be altered dynamically in the session.
The detail of JIS code (i.e. shift sequences) can't be specified from
command line option. Default is configuration dependent.
.IP
Specifying first character only (either f or t) results in BINARY mode being disabled.
In this case, code and EOL specifications are not changed.
.IP -g\fIline\fR
specifies the line number of first file in the command line.
.I Kemacs
jumps to the line.
.IP -s\fIpattern\fR
specifies search pattern. After reading first file,
.I kemacs
searches this pattern.
.IP
Only one of -g or -s can be specified at once.
.IP -x\fIline\fR
executes \fIline\fR as a macro command. If \fIline\fR contains shell sensitive
characters (spaces, dollers, exclaimations, etc.), they must be escaped.
.IP @\fImacro\fR
.br
specifies the macro file to be executed by
.I kemacs
instead of the standard startup macro file.
.PP
Other arguments are treated as the files to be edited. Only the first file
is actually read in. Others are read when the buffer associated to
each of them is selected.
.SH FILES
.IP ~/.kemacsrc
standard start-up macro.
.IP /usr/local/lib/kemacs/.kemacsrc
used when ~/.kemacsrc does not exist.
.IP /usr/local/lib/kemacs/emacs.hlp
help file.
.SH AUTHORS
.IP "D. M. Lawrence"
original author of MicroEmacs
.IP "SANETO (sanewo) Takanori"
hacked for kemacs
.SH BUGS
Many. :\-)
Gratefully welcome for bug reports,
suggestions, enhancement ideas, etc.
Please E-mail to the following address.
.PP
.RS 5
sanewo@hagiwara.kuis.kyoto\-u.JUNET\ (JUNET)
.br
sanewo%hagiwara.kuis.kyoto\-u.JUNET@japan.CSNET\ (CSNET)
.br
sanewo%hagiwara.kuis.kyoto\-u.JUNET%japan.CSNET@relay.cs.NET\ (ARPA)
.RE
